Language Diversity : Visible to Humans , Exploitable by Machines Gábor Bella University of Trento via Sommarive , 5 , 38123 Trento , Italy gabor.bella@unitn.it
Erdenebileg Byambadorj University of Trento via Sommarive , 5 , 38123 Trento , Italy e.byambadorj@unitn.it
Yamini Chandrashekar Khuyagbaatar Batsuren University of Trento National University of Mongolia via Sommarive , 5 , 38123 Trento , Italy NUM 1 , 14200 , Ulaanbaatar , Mongolia yamini.chandrashekar@unitn.it khuyagbaatar@num.edu.mn Danish Asghar Cheema Fausto Giunchiglia University of Trento University of Trento via Sommarive , 5 , 38123 Trento , Italy via Sommarive , 5 , 38123 Trento , Italy danish.cheema@unitn.it fausto.giunchiglia@unitn.it
Abstract The Universal Knowledge Core ( UKC ) is a large multilingual lexical database with a focus on language diversity and covering over two thousand languages .
The aim of the database , as well as its tools and data catalogue , is to make the abstract notion of linguistic diversity visually understandable for humans and formally exploitable by machines .
The UKC website lets users explore millions of individual words and their meanings , but also phenomena of cross - lingual convergence and divergence , such as shared interlingual meanings , lexicon similarities , cognate clusters , or lexical gaps .
The UKC LiveLanguage Catalogue , in turn , provides access to the underlying lexical data in a computer - processable form , ready to be reused in cross - lingual applications .
1 Introduction A recent challenge in computational linguistics has been the development of efficient multilingual and cross - lingual techniques for language understanding and processing .
In terms of solutions , a mainstream , yet often implicit assumption has been that shared meaning unites languages beyond superficial differences in lexicon and grammar : after all , humankind on the whole has been successful in getting ideas across linguistic borders .
Hence the recent trend of massively multilingual resources — lexical databases , crosslingual transfer matrices , pre - trained multilingual language models — exploiting a common meaningbased mapping across linguistic units .
Linguistic diversity remains , nevertheless , a key concept insomuch as it refers to deep - running , irreducible , meaning - level differences across languages and underlying cultural concepts .
To take real examples from state - of - the - art machine translation , syntactically correct but semantically absurd outputs such as ‘ my older brother is younger than me ’ or ‘ this raw rice is tasty ’ are not rare exceptions but recurrent consequences of diversity : the diverging ways languages express culturally significant concepts such as brother or rice .
While phenomena such as lexical gaps ( Lehrer , 1970 ) , culturally diverse terminology , or the varying relevance of the notion of word itself across languages are not unfamiliar to us computational linguists , this intuitive and high - level understanding is hard to translate into actual ‘ diversity - aware ’ computational applications , not the least because of the lack of formal datasets that would provide such information .
Lexical typology has described and catalogued many of such phenomena ( Koptjevskaja - Tamm et al. , 2015 ) .
A few online databases also provide contrastive data and visualisations , sometimes over thousands of languages ( Dryer and Haspelmath , 2013 ; Rzymski et al. , 2020 ; Holman et al. , 2011 ; Arora et al. , 2021 ) .
The These databases are rarely used in the NLP community , probably because they are often targeted towards historical linguistics and use phonetic representations of words or are limited to a few hundred core concepts .
Yet , our position is that typological data can and should be reused for computational purposes , provided that they are meaningfully integrated with existing resources on 156 Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics System Demonstrations , pages 156 - 165 May 22 - 27 , 2022 © 2022 Association for Computational Linguistics  Figure 1 : Structural elements in the UKC lexical database for representing cross - lingual unity and diversity .
contemporary language .
Computationally - oriented resources that address language diversity or linguistic typology have so far been concentrating on multilingual morphosyntax ( Ponti et al. , 2019 ; Batsuren et al. , 2021b ; Nivre et al. , 2016 ) .
On diversity in lexical semantics , only a few studies ( Giunchiglia et al. , 2017 ) and sporadic data have been available for specific languages , such as a few hundred lexical gaps in Hebrew ( Ordan and Wintner , 2007 ) or in Italian ( Pianta et al. , 2002 ) .
Large - scale multilingual lexical databases ( MLDB ) , such as BabelNet ( Navigli and Ponzetto , 2012 ) or the Open Multilingual Wordnet ( Bond and Foster , 2013 ) , have so far ignored phenomena related to language diversity and have concentrated on shared meaning .
The Universal Knowledge Core ( UKC ) database and system presented in this paper provides computer - readable cross - lingual lexical data , covering both the common and the diverse among more than a thousand lexicons .
The data is being made available for download from the UKC LiveLanguage catalogue1 , while the UKC website2 provides a set of interactive tools that allow both highlevel visualisations and an in - depth exploration of diversity data .
The rest of the paper provides an overview of the UKC database structure and contents , the online tools , and the data catalogue.3 2
A Multilingual Lexical Database on Language Diversity Among existing large - scale MLDBs , those with a published formal , computer - exploitable data 1 http://www.livelanguage.eu 2 http://ukc.datascientia.eu 3 See http://youtu.be/b90SdCJjtCw for a video .
model — such as the Open Multilingual WordNet , BabelNet , or EuroWordNet ( Vossen , 1997 ) — concentrate solely on language unity , i.e. shared supra - lingual meaning , through linking together words with the same meaning across languages .
The UKC offers a richer , two - layered representation of language unity , as well as introducing language diversity as formal data , both in terms of lexical model and actual content .
The UKC data model , the theoretical underpinnings of which have been exposed in ( Giunchiglia et al. , 2018 ) , is illustrated in Figure 1 .
On the top of the figure , a supra - lingual concept layer contains hierarchies of concepts that represent lexical meaning shared across languages .
Concepts thus act as bridges across languages .
The only criterion for a concept to be present in the concept layer is that it is lexicalised by at least one language .
The bottom lexicon layer consists of languagespecific lexicons .
As in other lexical databases , these provide lexicalisations for concepts , such as the English ‘ rice ’ and the Italian ‘ riso ’ for the concept of rice in Figure 1 .
Beyond lexicalisations , however , the UKC lexicons also provide rich crosslingual information on language unity and diversity through the additional constructs detailed below .
Lexical gaps .
As evoked in the introduction , when unrecognised , lexical untranslatability can decrease the performance of cross - lingual applications .
Syntactically correct yet meaningless Google translations , such as the Hungarian sentence ‘ A bátyám három évvel fiatalabb nálam , ’ meaning ‘ my older brother is three years younger than me , ’ are systematically produced due to nonexistent equivalent translations , in this case for the 157  Figure 2 : Lexicons in the UKC : circle sizes indicate lexicon size and their colour the language family ( phylum ) .
word brother in Hungarian.4
Likewise , as shown in Figure 1 , English has no single word for raw , uncooked rice while Swahili — and many other languages , cf .
( Joo , 2021)—has no equivalent for the general term rice .
The UKC provides evidence of untranslatability by representing lexical gaps inside lexicons .
Such information can be used , among others , to indicate the absence of equivalent terms to downstream cross - lingual applications .
characterises the extent to which the vocabularies of two languages ‘ resemble each other ’ , taking differing writing systems and orthographies into account .
This metric has , in our view , a better potential in predicting the success of cross - lingual tasks ( such as transfer learning or joint supervised training ) than language phylogeny , as it is based on the overlaps of contemporary lexicons as opposed to historical relatedness .
Cross - lingual sense relations .
Beyond providing shared word meanings as other MLDBs do , the UKC represents a richer set of interlingual connections between word senses .
For example , in Figure 1 , the English ‘ rice ’ and the Italian ‘ riso ’ are connected through a cognate relationship .
Cognates are words in different languages that sound the same and have the same ( or similar ) meaning due to a common etymological origin .
Cognates are key indicators of language unity on the lexical level , i.e. of the cross - lingual similarity of lexicons .
Such information can thus be exploited e.g. as seeds in cross - lingual tasks such as bilingual lexicon induction ( Batsuren et al. , 2021a ) .
Language - specific word meanings .
Diversity also means acknowledging our partial understanding of how specific languages conceptualise lexical meaning and the ultimate impossibility of an exhaustive interlingual model .
The UKC is the only lexical database to allow the co - existence of shared and language - specific word meaning hierarchies , inside the concept layer and the lexicons , respectively .
Figure 1 shows culture - specific words and meanings ( of rice - based foods ) represented inside the Kannada lexicon , not yet integrated into the shared concept layer .
Metadata on language diversity .
Beyond standard typological metadata such as language phylogeny or the geographical locations of speakers , the UKC also integrates cross - linguistic metadata computed from its own lexico - semantic content .
Based on cross - lingual cognate relationships , we computed large - scale lexicon similarity data across 27 thousand language pairs over 331 languages .
Lexicon similarity ( Bella et al. , 2021 ) formally 4 Apart from the laborious and thus rarely used fiútestvér .
Language - specific lexical relations .
Lexical relations within individual languages are sometimes part of lexical databases , such as antonymy or derivation in the Princeton WordNet ( Miller , 1998 ) .
The UKC integrates derivational relationships for 20 languages , introduces relation types not typically part of lexical databases — such as metonymof or homograph - of — and provides corresponding relation instances .
Table 1 shows the current contents of the UKC ( as of January 2022 ) in terms of the data types 158  Figure 3 : Exploring the concept of blueness as lexicalised in the English language ( left ) , in the world ( middle ) , and as part of the supra - lingual concept hierarchy ( right ) .
enumerated above .
Concepts and concept relations were initially derived from the Princeton WordNet , as in all other MLDBS , but then extended with 400 new concepts and 490 new relations .
We obtained lexicalisations from Wiktionary , NorthEuraLex ( Dellert et al. , 2020 ) , the Native Languages of the Americas5 , as well as from 28 monolingual wordnets cited at the end of our paper .
Lexical gaps were mostly obtained from original research ( about 33k from diversityrich domains such as kinship and colours , but also 600 gaps from ( Bella et al. , 2020 ) ) , and over a thousand gaps from the few third - party resources providing such information ( Pianta et al. , 2002 ; Ordan and Wintner , 2007 ) .
We computed crosslingual sense relations from UKC data , reusing our method published in ( Batsuren et al. , 2019a , 2021a ) .
Language - specific sense relations were obtained in a minor part from wordnets providing such data ( 48k relations ) , and in a major part from our own research on multilingual morphology ( Batsuren et al. , 2021b ) ( 770k derivations in 16 languages ) and metonymy ( 25k metonyms in 191 languages ) .
Finally , lexicon - level metadata on language diversity combines online sources ( Dryer and Haspelmath , 2013 ) with results of our own research on the similarity of lexicons ( Bella et al. , 2021 ) .
3
Exploring Diversity Data
The website of the UKC database provides browseable online access to the full database contents , data visualisation tools , extensive information on related projects , publications , source materials , as well as example downstream services , such 5 http://www.native-languages.org Content type Languages Concepts Concept relations Lexicalisations ( word senses )
Lexical gaps Cross - lingual sense relations Language - specific relations Lexicon - level diversity metadata Data size 2,176 106k 109k 2.8 M 35k 8 M 840k 30k Table 1 : UKC contents and data sizes .
as word translation between any two languages or multilingual word sense disambiguation ( to be released soon ) .
A major feature of the website is the interactive exploration of lexicons and diversity data .
The user can browse : ( 1 ) linguistic metadata of the 2k lexicons , selecting the language from an interactive map ( Figure 2 ) or by name ; ( 2 ) within a language , all meanings of a word typed in by the user ; and ( 3 ) lexicalisations and gaps of a concept in the current language and in all languages of the world .
A screenshot of the last — and richest — concept exploration functionality , taking the example concept of blueness , is provided in Figure 3 .
On the left - hand side of the screen , details are provided on the lexicalisation of the concept in the current language , such as synonyms , definition , part of speech , as well as lexical relationships to other word senses ( e.g. derivations , metonyms , cognates in other languages ) .
The middle part of the screen shows an interactive clickable map of all languages that either lexicalise the concept in the database or , on the contrary , are known not to lexicalise it .
The colour - coded dots ( indicating the language family while ‘ black holes ’ stand for gaps ) thus provide an 159  instant global typological overview for the concept selected , e.g. from Figure 3 one can see that a lot of languages in the Americas do not lexicalise blue as a separate colour .
Some language do not appear on the map due to lexicon incompleteness : for those languages the UKC has no information whether they lexicalise blueness or not .
The right - hand side , finally , shows the concept in the context of the lexico - semantic concept hierarchy , displayed as a graph .
A detail of the full graph is shown , including the currently observed concept blueness , the parent ( broader ) , and the child ( narrower ) concepts .
Other lexico - semantic relationships ( e.g. meronymy and metonymically related concepts ) are also shown when they exist .
While for usability reasons the graph only displays a part of the full hierarchy , it is interactive , allowing the entire concept graph to be explored in the currently selected language .
Changing the language is as simple as clicking on the map or selecting it from the drop - down in the upper left corner of the screen .
Colours in the graph are indicative of language diversity : they show whether a concept is lexicalised in the current language ( dark - coloured nodes ) , are missing from its lexicon ( light - coloured nodes ) , or are lexical gaps ( black nodes ) .
4 Visualising Language Diversity Beyond the fine - grained word and concept exploration presented in the previous section , the UKC website also offers visualisation tools that allow humans to grasp diversity both in its globality and from different angles .
Currently the following tools are provided , three of which we present below : ( 1 ) cognate diversity clusters ; ( 2 ) colexifications ; ( 3 ) a gap explorer for a fixed set of domains that are lexically diverse ; ( 4 ) lexical similarity graphs ; and ( 5 ) visual statistics .
Cognate diversity clusters .
This tool shows cognate clusters on the map for a given concept selected by the user , computed from cognate data inside the UKC .
In Figure 4 , the concept of fish is selected : each dot represents a lexicon that contains a word for fish .
Two dots are of the same colour if the two words are cognates of each other .
For example , the English ‘ fish ’ and the Italian ‘ pesce ’ are within one cognate cluster ( in light green in the figure ) while the Hungarian ‘ hal ’ and the Finnish ‘ kala ’ are in another cluster ( in turquoise ) .
The number and distribution of clusters for a given concept provide information about its universality or diversity : coffee is a so - called universal concept while woman is an extremely diverse one .
Lexical gap explorer .
Certain domains — such as kinship , food , colours , or body parts — are known by linguists to be lexically diverse , for reasons related to culture , geography , but also grammar and other factors ( Lehrer , 1970 ) .
The gap explorer tool displays a full concept hierarchy for a domain or subdomain selected by the user .
Figure 5 shows the UKC concept structure of the subdomain of siblings from the kinship domain .
For the language selected ( Danish in the figure ) , the tool displays existing lexicalisations , indicates incompleteness ( missing word ) , and provides known lexical gaps .
This allows for quick comparisons of how different languages lexicalise ( or not ) a given domain .
For example , for the cousins subdomain that consists of 67 concepts , English only lexicalises the root concept cousin with all other concepts as gaps , while South Indian languages provide no less than 16 distinct words depending on the age , sex , and lineage ( patrilineal / matrilineal ) of the cousin .
Lexical similarity graphs .
Relying on the extensive lexical data inside the UKC , we compute pairwise similarities between languages based on the amount of shared cognates , using the method described in our recent paper ( Bella et al. , 2021 ) .
In order to interpret the resulting similarity data for humans , i.e. provide a global overview of lexical similarity , we compute a dynamic graph visualisation where nodes are languages and edge lengths are proportional to lexical similarities .
The graph computation relies on a physical model of attraction and repulsion among nodes , using the ForceAtlas2 library ( Jacomy et al. , 2014 ) .
We provide two distinct colourings for the same graph : one based on language families ( shown in Figure 6 ) and the other based on geographical distance .
These graphs visualise how the similarity of contemporary lexicons correlates with ( historic ) phylogeny and with the geographical closeness of speakers .
As a way to make language evolution visual , we also provide the equivalent graph computed over data from historical linguistics , obtained from the ASJP database ( Holman et al. , 2011 ) .
Insights gained from these graphs may also help computational linguists predict the performance of automated tasks that involve some form of lexicon mapping ( e.g. bilingual lexicon induction or machine translation ) over specific language pairs .
160  Figure 4 : Cognate clusters for the concept of fish .
Figure 5 : Detail of the grandchild subdomain as lexicalised by the Danish language .
Figure 6 : Detail from the lexical similarity graph coloured according to language families .
161  Figure 7 : The UKC LiveLanguage Data Catalogue .
5
The LiveLanguage Data Catalogue As a complement to online exploration , we are also making available the contents of the UKC for computational applications .
While an open , finegrained , API - based access to the data is planned as future work , we are already in the process of publishing data for download through the UKC LiveLanguage data catalogue .
The catalogue , accessible from the website through any of the numerous download links , provides access to the UKC data through multiple modalities .
Accordingly , the structure of the catalogue , shown in Figure 7 , consists of ( 1 ) cross - lingual datasets ; ( 2 ) individual lexicons that aggregate all types of data about a single language ; and ( 3 ) lexicon sets that also provide cross - lingual information .
All datasets are published in full respect of the licensing constraints of their constituting resources ; data that disallow redistribution are excluded from the catalogue .
Raw data on cross - lingual diversity .
These datasets originate from projects on diversity and cover domain - specific lexical gaps , multilingual morphology , lexical similarity , and cognate relationships .
Datasets are distributed in their original formats , with concepts linked to Princeton WordNet 3.0 identifiers for interoperability with thirdparty data .
Individual lexicons .
These datasets are produced as language - specific ‘ cross - sections ’ of the full UKC data .
Their added value lies in the integration of multiple sources — words from wordnets and Wiktionary , language - specific morphological and lexico - semantic relationships , gaps — into a single formal representation .
These datasets will be provided in multiple formats ( under development ) , including the ISO standard Lexical Markup Framework ( LMF ) format as well as OntoLex .
Lexicon sets .
The notion of language diversity gains full significance across languages .
Consequently , the development of an online service is underway to allow the simultaneous download of multiple concept - aligned lexicons as a single multilingual resource .
The service will export multilingual data from the UKC database in real time .
Such datasets will be directly exploitable in cross - lingual training and evaluation tasks .
6 Conclusions and Future Work
We see a huge research potential both in the creation and in the reuse of diversity - aware language resources .
Exploiting diversity to improve stateof - the - art cross - lingual applications is a direction that we expect to gain importance and popularity in the community .
The UKC database , website , and data catalogue aims to contribute to such efforts .
All components of the system are going through a rapid evolution : the database contents in terms of language support , lexicon correctness and completeness , the data exploration and visualisation tools , new demonstrators , and APIs are continually being created and extended .
We are also deploying regional instances of the UKC — e.g. for the MiddleEast or the Indian subcontinent — where diversity among local languages and dialects is studied in fine detail by local communities of linguists .
Acknowledgement
This paper and the underlying research were supported by the European Union ’s H2020 Research and Innovation programme under grant agreement no . 826106 , project InteropEHRate . 162  References Lars Borin , Markus Forsberg , and Lennart Lönngren .
2008 .
The hunting of the blark – saldo , a freely available lexical database for swedish language technology .
Resourceful language technology .
Festschrift in honor of Anna Sågvall Hein , ( 7):21–32 .
Aryaman Arora , Adam Farris , Gopalakrishnan R , and Samopriya Basu . 2021 .
Bhās.ācitra : Visualising the dialect geography of South Asia .
In Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Computational Approaches to Historical Language Change 2021 , pages 51–57 , Online .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Khuyagbaatar Batsuren , Gábor Bella , and Fausto Giunchiglia . 2019a .
Cognet : A large - scale cognate database .
In Proceedings of the 57th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics , pages 3136–3145 .
Khuyagbaatar Batsuren , Gábor Bella , and Fausto Giunchiglia .
2021a .
A large and evolving cognate database .
Language Resources and Evaluation , pages 1–25 .
Khuyagbaatar Batsuren , Gábor Bella , and Fausto Giunchiglia .
2021b .
Morphynet : a large multilingual database of derivational and inflectional morphology .
In Proceedings of the 18th SIGMORPHON Workshop on Computational Research in Phonetics , Phonology , and Morphology , pages 39–48 .
Khuyagbaatar Batsuren , Amarsanaa Ganbold , Altangerel Chagnaa , and Fausto Giunchiglia . 2019b .
Building the mongolian wordnet .
In Proceedings of the 10th global WordNet conference , pages 238 – 244 .
Gábor Bella , Khuyagbaatar Batsuren , and Fausto Giunchiglia . 2021 .
A database and visualization of the similarity of contemporary lexicons .
In International Conference on Text , Speech , and Dialogue , pages 95–104 .
Springer .
Gábor Bella , Fiona McNeill , Rody Gorman , Caoimhín Ó Donnaíle , Kirsty MacDonald , Yamini Chandrashekar , Abed Alhakim Freihat , and Fausto Giunchiglia . 2020 .
A major wordnet for a minority language : Scottish gaelic .
In Proceedings of the 12th Language Resources and Evaluation Conference , pages 2812–2818 .
Johannes Dellert , Thora Daneyko , Alla Münch , Alina Ladygina , Armin Buch , Natalie Clarius , Ilja Grigorjew , Mohamed Balabel , Hizniye Isabella Boga , Zalina Baysarova , et al. 2020 .
Northeuralex : a widecoverage lexical database of northern eurasia .
Language resources and evaluation , 54(1):273–301 .
Matthew S. Dryer and Martin Haspelmath , editors .
2013 .
WALS
Online .
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology , Leipzig .
Darja Fišer , Jernej Novak , and Tomaž Erjavec . 2012 .
slownet 3.0 : development , extension and cleaning .
In Proceedings of 6th International Global Wordnet Conference ( GWC 2012 ) , pages 113–117 .
Ruth Vatvedt Fjeld and Lars Nygaard . 2009 .
Norneta monolingual wordnet of modern norwegian .
In NODALIDA 2009 workshop : WordNets and other Lexical Semantic Resources - between Lexical Semantics , Lexicography , Terminology and Formal Ontologies , volume 7 , pages 13–16 .
Amarsanaa Ganbold , Altangerel Chagnaa , and Gábor Bella . 2018 .
Using crowd agreement for wordnet localization .
In Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC-2018 ) .
Radovan Garabík . 2010 .
Slovak national corpus tools and resources .
In 5th Workshop on Intelligent and Knowledge oriented Technologies , page 2 .
Citeseer .
Radovan Garabík and Indrė Pileckytė. 2013 .
From multilingual dictionary to lithuanian wordnet .
Natural Language Processing , Corpus Linguistics , ELearning , pages 74–80 .
Fausto Giunchiglia , Khuyagbaatar Batsuren , and Gabor Bella . 2017 .
Understanding and exploiting language diversity .
In IJCAI , pages 4009–4017 .
Luisa Bentivogli , Pamela Forner , Bernardo Magnini , and Emanuele Pianta . 2004 .
Revising the wordnet domains hierarchy : semantics , coverage and balancing .
In Proceedings of the workshop on multilingual linguistic resources , pages 94–101 .
Pushpak Bhattacharyya . 2010 .
Indowordnet .
In In Proc . of LREC-10 .
Citeseer .
Francis Bond and Ryan Foster .
2013 .
Linking and extending an open multilingual wordnet .
In Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( Volume 1 : Long Papers ) , pages 1352–1362 .
Fausto Giunchiglia , Khuyagbaatar Batsuren , and Abed Alhakim Freihat . 2018 .
One world – seven thousand languages .
In Proceedings 19th International Conference on Computational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Processing , CiCling2018 , 18 - 24 March 2018 .
Aitor Gonzalez - Agirre , Egoitz Laparra , and German Rigau . 2012 .
Multilingual central repository version 3.0 .
In LREC , pages 2525–2529 .
Marissa Griesel and Sonja Bosch . 2014 .
Taking stock of the african wordnet project : 5 years of development .
In Proceedings of the Seventh Global Wordnet Conference , pages 148–153 .
163  Maria Grigoriadou , Harry Kornilakis , Eleni Galiotou , Sofia Stamou , and Evangelos Papakitsos . 2004 .
The software infrastructure for the development and validation of the greek wordnet .
Romanian Journal of Information Science and Technology , 7(1 - 2):89–105 .
Eric W Holman , Cecil H Brown , Søren Wichmann , André Müller , Viveka Velupillai , Harald Hammarström , Sebastian Sauppe , Hagen Jung , Dik Bakker , Pamela Brown , et al. 2011 .
Automated dating of the world ’s language families based on lexical similarity .
Current Anthropology , 52(6):841–875 .
Chu - Ren Huang , Shu - Kai Hsieh , Jia - Fei Hong , YunZhu Chen , I - Li Su , Yong - Xiang Chen , and ShengWei Huang . 2010 .
Chinese wordnet : Design , implementation , and application of an infrastructure for cross - lingual knowledge processing .
Journal of Chinese Information Processing , 24(2):14–23 .
Joakim Nivre , Marie - Catherine De Marneffe , Filip Ginter , Yoav Goldberg , Jan Hajic , Christopher D Manning , Ryan McDonald , Slav Petrov , Sampo Pyysalo , Natalia Silveira , et al. 2016 .
Universal dependencies v1 : A multilingual treebank collection .
In Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC’16 ) , pages 1659–1666 .
Nurril Hirfana Bte Mohamed Noor , Suerya Sapuan , and Francis Bond . 2011 .
Creating the open wordnet bahasa .
In Proceedings of the 25th Pacific Asia Conference on Language , Information and Computation , pages 255–264 .
Noam Ordan and Shuly Wintner . 2007 .
Hebrew wordnet : a test case of aligning lexical databases across languages .
International Journal of Translation , 19(1):39–58 .
Hitoshi Isahara , Francis Bond , Kiyotaka Uchimoto , Masao Utiyama , and Kyoko Kanzaki . 2008 .
Development of the japanese wordnet .
In LREC .
Petya Osenova and Kiril Simov .
2018 .
The data - driven bulgarian wordnet : Btbwn .
Cognitive Studies|
Études cognitives , ( 18 ) .
Mathieu Jacomy , Tommaso Venturini , Sebastien Heymann , and Mathieu Bastian . 2014 .
Forceatlas2 , a continuous graph layout algorithm for handy network visualization designed for the gephi software .
PloS one , 9(6):e98679 .
Emanuele Pianta , Luisa Bentivogli , and Christian Girardi . 2002 .
Multiwordnet : developing an aligned multilingual database .
In First international conference on global WordNet , pages 293–302 .
Ian Joo . 2021 .
The etymology of korean ssal ‘ uncooked grain ’ and pap ‘ cooked grain ’ .
Cahiers de Linguistique Asie Orientale , 50(1):94 – 110 .
Farhad Keyvan , Habib Borjian , Manuchehr Kasheff , and Christiane Fellbaum .
2007 .
Developing persianet : The persian wordnet .
In 3rd Global wordnet conference .
Citeseer , pages 315–318 .
Citeseer .
Maria Koptjevskaja - Tamm , Ekaterina Rakhilina , and Martine Vanhove . 2015 .
The semantics of lexical typology .
In The Routledge handbook of semantics , pages 450–470 .
Routledge .
Edoardo Maria Ponti , Helen O’horan , Yevgeni Berzak , Ivan Vulić , Roi Reichart , Thierry Poibeau , Ekaterina Shutova , and Anna Korhonen . 2019 .
Modeling language variation and universals : A survey on typological linguistics for natural language processing .
Computational Linguistics , 45(3):559–601 .
Marten Postma , Emiel van Miltenburg , Roxane Segers , Anneleen Schoen , and Piek Vossen . 2016 .
Open dutch wordnet .
In Proceedings of the 8th Global WordNet Conference ( GWC ) , pages 302–310 .
Alexandre Rademaker , Valeria de Paiva , Fabricio Chalub , Livy Real , and Claudia Freitas . 2016 .
Introducing openwordnet - pt : a open portuguese wordnet for reasoning .
Adrienne Lehrer . 1970 .
Notes on lexical gaps .
Journal of linguistics , 6(2):257–261 .
Krister Lindén and Lauri Carlson . 2010 .
Finnwordnet – finnish wordnet by translation .
LexicoNordica – Nordic Journal of Lexicography , 17:119–140 .
Marek Maziarz , Maciej Piasecki , and Stan Szpakowicz . 2012 .
Approaching plwordnet 2.0 .
In Proceedings of 6th International Global Wordnet Conference , The Global WordNet Association , pages 189–196 .
George A Miller . 1998 .
WordNet : An electronic lexical database .
MIT press .
Roberto Navigli and Simone Paolo Ponzetto . 2012 .
Babelnet : The automatic construction , evaluation and application of a wide - coverage multilingual semantic network .
Artificial Intelligence , 193:217–250 .
Ida Raffaelli , Marko Tadic , Božo Bekavac , and Željko Agic . 2008 .
Building croatian wordnet .
In Proceedings of GWC , pages 349–360 .
Yasser Regragui , Lahsen Abouenour , Fettoum Krieche , Karim Bouzoubaa , and Paolo Rosso . 2016 .
Arabic wordnet : New content and new applications .
In Proceedings of the 8th Global WordNet Conference ( GWC ) , pages 333–341 .
Christoph Rzymski , Tiago Tresoldi , Simon J Greenhill , Mei - Shin Wu , Nathanael E Schweikhard , Maria Koptjevskaja - Tamm , Volker Gast , Timotheus A Bodt , Abbie Hantgan , Gereon A Kaiping , et al. 2020 .
The database of cross - linguistic colexifications , reproducible analysis of cross - linguistic polysemies .
Scientific data , 7(1):1–12 . 164  Benoît Sagot and Darja Fišer . 2008 .
Construction d’un wordnet libre du français à partir de ressources multilingues .
In Actes de la 15ème conférence sur le Traitement Automatique des Langues Naturelles .
Articles longs , pages 171–180 .
Sareewan Thoongsup , Thatsanee Charoenporn , Kergrit Robkop , Tan Sinthurahat , Chumpol Mokarat , Virach Sornlertlamvanich , and Hitoshi Isahara . 2009 .
Thai wordnet construction .
In Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources ( ALR7 ) , pages 139–144 .
Dan Tufiş , Radu Ion , Luigi Bozianu , Alexandru Ceauşu , and Dan Ştefănescu .
2007 .
Romanian wordnet : Current state , new applications and prospects .
In Proceedings of the Fourth Global WordNet Conference ( GWC 2008 ) , pages 441–452 .
PJTM Vossen . 1997 .
Eurowordnet : a multilingual database for information retrieval .
Shan Wang and Francis Bond .
2013 .
Building the chinese open wordnet ( cow ): Starting from core synsets .
In Proceedings of the 11th Workshop on Asian Language Resources , pages 10–18 .
Xinyi Wu , Zhenyao Wu , Hao Guo , Lili Ju , and Song Wang . 2021 .
Dannet : A one - stage domain adaptation network for unsupervised nighttime semantic segmentation .
In Proceedings of the IEEE / CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 15769–15778 .
165 
